# crypto-vault-service

## Table of Contents

+ [Summary](#summary)
+ [References](#references)
+ [Features](#features)
+ [Getting started](#getting-started)
+ [Documentation](#documentation)

## Summary

Interfaces (CLIs, gRPC APIs, RESTful Web APIs) for managing cryptographic keys and securing data at rest (metadata, BLOB)

## References

- [OpenSSL with libp11 for Signing, Verifying and Encrypting, Decrypting](https://docs.yubico.com/hardware/yubihsm-2/hsm-2-user-guide/hsm2-openssl-libp11.html#rsa-pkcs)
- [pkcs11-tool usage](https://docs.nitrokey.com/nethsm/pkcs11-tool#id1)
- [OpenFGA online editor](https://play.fga.dev/sandbox/?store=github)
- [Adding gRPC-Gateway annotations to an existing proto file](https://grpc-ecosystem.github.io/grpc-gateway/docs/tutorials/adding_annotations/)
- [grpc-gateway Github repository](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway)
- [grpcurl Github repository](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl)

## Features

### Functional

- [x] **RESTful API**: Provide HTTP endpoints to manage cryptographic material and secure data at rest.
- [x] **gRPC API**: Provide gRPC endpoints to manage cryptographic material and secure data at rest.
- [x] **Asymmetric encryption and decryption**: Support RSA encryption algorithm for data protection.
- [x] **Symmetric encryption**: Support for symmetric key encryption (e.g. AES) for data protection.
- [x] **Signature creation and verification:** Support for hashing algorithms (e.g. SHA-256, SHA-512) to create digital signatures and the ability to verify these signatures using asymmetric keys (RSA, ECDSA).
- [x] **PKCS#11 integration**: Enable key management and cryptographic operations (such as RSA-PKCS encryption/decryption and RSA-PSS or ECDSA signing/verification) through PKCS#11 interfaces supporting both FIPS-compliant hardware and software environments.
- [ ] **Manage cryptographic material and Key management lifecycle**: Enable management of private/public key pairs and symmetric keys and implement key lifecycle management
    - [x] Generation
    - [ ] ~~Import~~ (keys can only be generated by the system) 
    - [x] Export
    - [ ] Rotation
    - [ ] Revocation
    - [ ] Expiration
- [ ] **Secure file storage integration**: Provide mechanisms to securely store encrypted files in BLOB storages 
    - [ ] AWS S3
    - [x] Azure Blob Storage
    - [ ] Google Cloud Storage

### Non-functional

- [x] **Scalable and maintainable project structure**: Refer to the [project-layout GitHub repo](https://github.com/golang-standards/project-layout) and adopt Domain-Driven Design to create a **modular, flexible and maintainable** project structure with a focus on the **domain at its core**
- [x] **CI workflows for quality checks**: Set up continuous integration workflows with GitHub Actions for automated linting, functional and non-functional testing, building and pushing artifacts.
- [ ] **Security checks in CI workflows**: Consider non-functional testing (vulnerability scanning, SBOM generation, Static Code Analysis) in GitHub Actions.
- [ ] **Performance optimization**: Ensure cryptographic operations are optimized for performance, especially for large files and high throughput environments.
- [x] **Logging**: Integrate logging (e.g. using structured logging with `logrus`) 
- [ ] **Monitoring**: Integrate monitoring (e.g. Prometheus, Grafana) to track API usage, performance and errors.
- [ ] **Security**: Ensure that all cryptographic material and metadata is securely encrypted before storing it using a master key
- [ ] **Access control**: Secure APIs using authorization mechanisms including OAuth 2.0 and JWTs. Implement relationship-based access control (ReBAC) for APIs, ensuring that users can only perform operations on cryptographic material based on their defined relationships and permissions within the system.
- [x] **Documentation**: Provide clear API documentation (e.g. Swagger/OpenAPI) for ease of integration by other developers.
- [x] **Versioning**: Implement proper API versioning to maintain backward compatibility as the API evolves.
- [ ] **Audit logging**: Maintain logs of all cryptographic operations and key management activities for compliance and auditing purposes.


## Getting Started

### Preconditions

- Install Go from the official Go website, or use this [devcontainer.json](../../.devcontainer/devcontainer.json) with the [DevContainer extensions in VS Code or other IDE supporting DevContainers](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)
- If the `devcontainer.json` is not used, install the necessary dependencies for PKCS#11 integration on a later Linux distribution such as `Debian 12` or `Ubuntu 22.04`: 

```sh
apt-get update 
apt-get install -y openssl opensc softhsm libssl-dev libengine-pkcs11-openssl
```

### Formatting and linting

For formatting and linting run either on Unix systems

```sh
cd scripts
./format-and-lint.sh
```

or

```sh
make format-and-lint
```

### Run Tests

To run `unit tests` on Unix systems execute

```sh
make run-unit-tests
```

To run `integration tests` on Unix systems execute

```sh
make spin-up-integration-test-docker-containers
make run-integration-tests
make shut-down-docker-containers 
```

### Applications

You can find applications utilizing [internal packages](./internal/) in the [cmd folder](./cmd/).

### Documentation

You can find documentation on architectural decisions, diagrams and concepts [here](./docs).
